We've talked so much about the mechanics
of all these factors of accessibility,
probably so much more than you even
really wanted, frankly, [LAUGH].
But there's visual aspects that
we have to consider as well,
starting with color and visual contrast.
When we tested with debugging earlier,
color contrast,
I think on one site there was
almost 100 color contrast issues.
And so, that multiplied across
the web is a huge number of
accessibility issues for color contrast.
And so with this,
we've seen some tools for this.
The Chrome color picker and the Firefox
color picker were super useful for this.
And the ratios are mathematical, so
we can calculate whether something
passes or not, which is nice.
So the requirements,
the regular non-bold text
size below 24 pixels must have
a contrast ratio of 4.5:1.
24 pixels is pretty big, so
that's like big headings.
Those pieces of text that are large
scale only have to meet 3:1.
They're bigger, they're easier to see,
pretty straightforward.
WCAG, for
some reason does mention 18 points.
But pixels,
that's a unit that we're used to more,
like pixels or rems or
something, points, not so much.
So just know, 18 points is 24 pixels,
that's that threshold
to get into the 3 to 1.
There's also a criterion for non-text
contrast, that's things like buttons,
form controls, icon buttons,
those only need to meet 3:1.
So we saw some tooling for
checking contrast,
there's the Axe Chrome extension,
we'll touch some of this.
There's one that we haven't looked at yet,
that's the Color Contrast Analyzer,
it's a desktop application.
This one's great,
cuz I could be in a Zoom call,
and someone could be demoing a pattern or
a design system or something.
And I can sample a color in Zoom,
and I could answer them right then.
It might not be totally
accurate cuz of the Internet.
But you can sample literally any
application on your computer for contrast.
It could be a PDF,
it could be a Zoom call, whatever.
So this one is pretty handy,
it gives you an eyedropper.
You can go around and
check foreground, background color.
So that one's worth checking out.
WebAIM has a contrast
checker on their website.
For design, there's Stark,
for Figma as well, and
there's also a AAA criterion that's 7:1.
So we don't wanna rely on color alone.
If you had, say, on your e-commerce site,
you have different colorways of products,
you wanna describe what the color is,
also, in addition to the color swatch.
Things like data visualizations
come up with this a lot.
So that you can have
some differentiation so
that you aren't relying on
perception of color alone.
And I have some links in here, if you're
curious to dive in more to color,
including this pretty funny one.
It's almost like a quiz, from TPG.
It says, when I get that low-contrast
feeling, I need non-textual healing.
It's a really funny name.
But the post itself is actually really
great, because they have scenarios
where they walk you through,
I don't know, it's almost like a quiz.
So that one you should
check out after this.
Okay, reflow, so
this is the bit about accessibility and
responsive design and
how closely coupled they are.
And we did touch on this one,
we did some debugging.
So designing for reflow,
we want things to go into a single column.
Thinking about form controls, if you can
stack the label over the form input,
that makes it so you don't have to
horizontally scroll if you are low vision.
We want font size and
things to be adjustable.
I like to set the font size on
the HTML tag and then use rems, and
it will scale automatically, it's amazing.
And some web tools to test reflow.
We saw just the built-in zoom is awesome,
but
there's also the device
toolbar in Chrome DevTools.
So just to point that one out,
it's a over here on the DevTools,
there is this little
toggle device toolbar.
And you can change the device,
you can change it to any screen width.
You can throttle it, all these cool
things, but that is another tool for this.
And then there's additional
platform tools with macOS, iOS.
Windows has a magnifier,
there's also a third-party tool
called ZoomText, so reflow.
Okay, reducing motion, this is what
our last exercise will be about.
So, motion is a big thing,
it can make people sick.
It can make people faint or
have a seizure.
It can be pretty serious.
And so, fortunately,
we have some tools that make it really
easy to safely respond
to user preferences,
including something called
prefers-reduced-motion.
It's super well-supported, and
even on platforms where it happens
to not be supported,
you can add a little toggle or
something to let the user still tell
you that they prefer reduced motion.
So turning this on, on a Mac,
we go under Accessibility > Display, and
there's this little setting
here called Reduce motion.
And so, that is really powerful,
cuz you can impact your webpages.
You can see the state turning on and
off with something that works with reduced
motion just by checking that check box.
And so for this, we have a CSS
media query, we can say @media, and
for our condition,
prefers-reduced-motion: no-preference.
And that will say if
the setting exists and
they haven't checked it,
then we can do animation stuff.
So the flip side of that is when
things are animated by default,
we can say @media
(prefers-reduced-motion: reduce).
And that way, if the user checks
that check or checks that setting,
then we can turn animation off.
So it's kind of the same thing, but
it's whether your default is animated or
not, you can opt into animation
when it's safe to do so.
And that way if the user's on
a platform that doesn't support that,
it won't be animated.
Whereas the other way, everyone
gets animation until they opt out.
Just two ways to do similar things.
So here's an example,
I'm gonna open this up.
We've got this cat animation,
this uses keyframes.
It has this infinite animation in a mask.
And then down here,
we have prefers-reduced-motion: reduce,
and in my system preferences, it stopped.
[LAUGH] I can stop the animation
just by clicking that.
And then our code matches and
it responds, it's pretty awesome, so
there it goes again.
So, very powerful, I'm gonna turn it back
on so we can look at our next example.
So, that's the CSS media query.
Sometimes JavaScript
might be the way to go.
And our example that we'll work on
in a few minutes, our last example,
we are going to use
the JavaScript version of this.
So, it looks very similar,
but instead of CSS,
we store a variable for a motion query and
store this matchMedia function, and
that is where our CSS bit goes.
So the prefers-reduced-motion:
no-preference or reduce.
And you can store a variable to
flip when that condition changes.
We make a motionQuery listener,
then the more modern version of
this is to use a change event.
I think it used to use like
a addListener API, it worked fine, but
it was deprecated.
So the current version of this is to
addEventlistener, use a change event.
And then it will call this callback
function whenever that state changes.
So the handleReducedMotionChange then
will go and watch that motion query.
We call it once to make it fire on load,
and then it will respond.
So here's an example of that, going back,
kind of a throwback to
my ActionScript days.
These eyes will follow your mouse cursor,
Which is kind of whimsical and fun.
So it calculates the vanilla
JavaScript to move where the eyes
are pointing based on where your mouse is.
And then we have the motionQuery in here
that the mousemove listener will go and
check that variable for
the user's preference.
So let's go turn that off, Reduce motion,
now the eyes are not moving.
So, in case you have some animation or
motion that's all delivered
with JavaScript, you have a hook
now to go and turn that off.
So that can be handy, so, Reduce motion.
We have prefers-color-scheme, this one
is kind of how this theme of these
slides are created, so
you can match on light mode or dark mode.
It's built in,
similarly well supported, and so
it's under System Settings > Appearance.
And we have, like prefers-reduced-motion,
we have prefers-color-scheme,
dark or light.
And then you can do the JavaScript
version as well with match media.
And just a reminder to
check your contrast.
So if you're doing multiple modes
like these slides, I had to go in and
change a few things.
But we have some pretty
awesome tooling for this now.
Okay, so accessibility and
performance, just a mention of that.
We have this concept in performance
these days of skeleton layouts,
and they're pretty great.
I guess my hope is that we
can think beyond the visual.
And so if we're showing something
on screen, maybe just add like
loading in a live region or something
to announce that the page is loading.
Cuz that is a very visual approach
to a performance problem.
So consider making a screen reader
announcement as part of that.
We want to minimize blocking
interactions so the page will load fast,
that really affects everybody.
So we have some metrics
we could use to track
how long things are taking, that can help.
Performance as a user experience metric.
So I have a graphic from a Tootsie Pop
commercial that made me think of it,
how many keystrokes does
it take to complete a task?
So I think that could be another
way to think about performance,
as how many steps does it
take to complete something?
It's kind of another way
to think about performance.
And this is really a throwback
to one of the most pivotal books
in my career that I read was
Don't Make Me Think by Steve Krug.
We wanna keep things simple,
fewer steps, kind of gets into UX.
But if you can invoke performance as
not only how fast your site loads,
but how complex is it,
I think that could help in the pursuit of
making things simpler and more accessible.
And therefore, often,
easier to build and maintain.